@h1 Frequently Asked Questions

@h4 How and where does my child get a tag?
You get them at the Freikometer in the mornings when a volunteer is
there.  You can find the contact information for the volunteers at
each participating school here.

@h4 How do I register my child?  How do I check my rides?
@a href=/pub/register You register here. 
Parents or guardians should register for their children.
Once registered, you can register all your children under
one email address.  Many families have more than one child
participating in Freiker.  Follow the 
@strong Register child
link on 
@a href=/my-site Your Family
site.

You should make sure your child has been scanned by a 
Freikometer one time before trying to register your child. 
Then you can register.

Once you have registered your child's tag, all of the rides
for that tag will then show up.

@h4 How do I check my rides?
Parents should register for children.  You can then 
register each child.  You star

@h4 Who is the lead volunteer ("Wheel") at my school?
Please contact us at
@b-widget contact
and we'll put you in touch with your Wheel

@h4 How do I get a new tag? Can I register more than 1 tag for my child?
Yes.  When you login and go to Your Family, click on a child's name.
Then follow the "New Helmet Tag" link to add a new tag.  The new tag
must have already been scanned by the Freikometer. Once you enter the
ID number from the new tag, all the rides from the multiple tags
should show up.
	
@h4 How do I add missing rides? 
Go to
@a href=/my-site Your Family
and click on the
@strong Add missing ride
link next to your child's name.

@h4 The Freikometer didn't ring this morning.  Is it broken?
Maybe.  The Freikometer does malfunction from time to time.  Keep in
mind that the Freikometer is scheduled to only be turned on for a
limited amount of time before school and after school lets out.
If you are unsure,
please contact us at
@b-widget contact@
.

@h4 When do my children win their prizes?
We are working on the software which will allow you to order prizes on
the web.  This should be available some time this winter.  We're sorry
for the delay, but we're a non-profit run by volunteers, and our day
jobs take precedence.

@h4 Where should I place the tag on my child's helmet?
Ideally the tag should be placed on the top of the helmet. If this
isn't possible then place the sticker on the side of the helmet most
likely to face the Freikometer as the child rides past. Please
note that there are some helmets made with metal which interferes with
the Freikometer reading the tag. Some Freikers have had success
placing the tag on a chin strap (putting additional clear tape over
the tag is fine).
	
@h4 How do I get a new helmet tag?
Please contact us at
@b-widget contact
to get a new tag.

@h4 My child came home with someone else's helmet.  Can you help?
You can send us the tag number at
@b-widget contact
and we'll do our best to notify the child.

@h4 Is walking included?
We don't support walking at this time.  The program is just getting
started, and we would like to work out the kinks before expanding into
other modes of transportation (such as walking).

@h4 How do I get more bike racks for my school?
This is a common problem with Freiker.  On the one hand it is
flattering, because we want to see more bikes at schools, but we also
know that kids need racks to lock their bikes to.  Talk to your
school, parent association, or school board about installing new
racks.  Or see if there are local companies or individuals who would
be willing to donate racks or the money to purchase them.  	 

@h4 My child doesn't have a helmet.  Can he or she still participate?
Because we care so much about safety, we require the tags to be
fastened to helmets.  That way, children do not get credit unless they
wear helmets.  If your child needs a helmet, please contact us at
@b-widget contact@
.

@h4 Can I track when my child arrives or leaves school?
No.  The Freikometer stores the tag numbers until it can upload the
data to this website.  Sometimes there are network problems that
prevent the tags from getting uploaded.  
	
@h4 What if I don't want to give my child's name or email?
No problem.  You can use any name you want.  And we do not want
children registering.  Parents register.  We only require an email
address, not even your real name.  We ask for other data, such as a
9-digit zip code and gender, but none of that information is required
to participate in Freiker.  Note that if you do not give us a valid
email address for yourself, we can't contact you if your child wins
the Green Gear or to communicate other relevant information.  Don't
worry, we promise we won't spam you, and we do not share our email
lists with anyone.

@h4 What if it is snowing or raining?
You only get credit if you ride, even if it is raining or snowing.
Many Freikers do ride in bad weather.  It's up to each family to
decide how often they want to ride.  At Freiker the rule is simple:
The more you ride, the more you win!

@h4 Who pays for the iPods?
Freiker, Inc. is a 501(c)3 non-profit. 
@a href=/site/donate  Your donations pay for prizes.
We do receive some money from the federally-funded
@a href=^saferoutesinfo.org Safe Routes to Schools
program.  We also receive donations from
@a href=^Sponsors many local companies.

@h4 How can our school become part of the program?
Please contact us at gears@freiker.org to determine the costs for your program and the necessary steps to add Freiker.  

