@h1 The Frequent Biker Program
@a.movie href=^/my/file/freikometer.html ^freikometer.gif 
@h3 Getting Kids Active 
Freiker is dedicated to substantially increasing the number of children regularly bicycling to school.  Freiker uses advanced technology to count and provide incentives for kids who ride to school. 

The prevalence of overweight children and adolescents in the U.S. has doubled over the past 20 years.  This significant increase is due to many factors, but we believe that one of the steps to fighting this problem is to encourage children to be active.  In fact, the U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services recommends that children engage in at least 60 minutes of moderate intensity physical activity most days of the week, preferably daily to promote health and psychological well-being.  

And the daily trip to school is a perfect opportunity for activity.  Plus, it's fun, and kids and parents love being outside, getting some exercise, and seeing other participating families when they arrive at school.

@h3 Additional benefits of Freiker
Independence: Children gain confidence when they don't have to rely on their parents or a bus to get them to and from school.  

Focus: studies show that regular physical activity results in more alert individuals and even promotes brain activity.

Neighborhood:  On a bike, the trip from home to school becomes a full sensory experience - children talk and wave to their neighbors, feel and smell the changes in the seasons, and see their neighborhood in a whole different light. 

Environment:  More kids on bikes means fewer cars on the road, and fewer cars idling in front of the school in the mornings and afternoons.

Community:  Many parents ride to school with their children, and schools benefit from the impromptu social gatherings that occur around the bike racks. 
 
Safety:  Since the RFID tags are on the helmets, children who ride without helmets aren't counted by the Freikometer.

@h3 How It Works
A participating child (a "Freiker") earns prizes based on the number of days he or she rides over the course of a school year.  Freikers do not compete against each other for prizes.  There is no best in class or school.  Every Freiker wins if he or she rides.  Ride to school once, and you're a Freiker.  Ride to school ten times, and you have qualified for a prize.  These are achievable goals for any child, and they represent the first step towards a healthier, more self-reliant, more alert student. 

@h3 Fried-o-whatsit?
That's "Freikometer", and it adds a lot of fun to bike encouragement
programs.  Freiker's success is measurable due to fanatical dedication to data.
Like many other bike programs, we started with punch cards.  The next
year we used barcodes and scanners.  In 2006, we debuted the Freikometer:
an automatic device that counts riders and uploads the data securely to
freiker.org.  It's solar powered so you can put it right near the
bike racks at your school.

The Freikometer is currently being used at five 
@a href=http://www.bvsd.org Boulder Valley School District
schools.  The Freikometers survived (for the most part) the harsh winter of 2006-2007.  We completely redesigned the Freikometers for the 2007-2008 school year, and they are working better than ever and should operate better in the extreme cold.  We are looking to expand the program outside the Boulder area; if you are interested in having your school participate, please contact us by email at 
.  

The best way to understand how the Freikometer works is to see it in
action.  
@a href=^/my/file/freikometer.html View the movie (5mb).

@h3 Freiker Doubles Ridership! ^freiker-weather.gif
Twice as many kids are riding to
@a href=http://schools.bvsd.org/crestview Crest View Elementary
than were riding three years ago.  Why?  iPods.  It's that simple. Kids who
ride to Crest View (and other area schools) receive an iPod if they
ride their bikes 160 times to school.  Last year we gave out
50 iPods and about 10 digital cameras to hard-working Freikers at
Crest View, Foothill Elementary, and Horizons K-8.  We gave out lots of
other prizes, too.  Yet, the cost of the program is only about
$7,500 per school.  Isn't it worth
@a href=/site/donate 15% of the price of a new Lexus
to improve our environment by encouraging more kids to get on their
bikes more often?

@h3 Questions?
Your questions may have already been answered in our 
@a href=FAQ Frequently Asked Questions page
, or you can contact us by email at 
@b-widget contact@
.
