@h1 FREIKER - PRIVACY POLICY

@h2 Our Commitment To Privacy

Your privacy is important to us.  Our ongoing commitment to the protection of your privacy is essential to maintaining the relationship of trust that exists between Freiker, Inc. ("Freiker") and all of our users, whether they be students, parents, educators, or other visitors to this web site.  This privacy policy (the "Privacy Policy") is intended to help you understand our online information security practices and how we collect, use and share information collected by us from our website located at www.freiker.org (the "Site"). 

@h2 User Consent

By accessing or using the Site, you agree to the terms of this Privacy Policy and you expressly consent to the processing of your Personal Information according to this Privacy Policy and you agree to the Freiker Terms of Service located at 
^http://www.freiker.org/bp/Terms_and_Conditions
(the "Terms of Service"). 

Your Personal Information may be processed by us in the country where it was collected as well as other countries (including the United States) where laws regarding processing of Personal Information may be less stringent than the laws in your country. 

You may have accessed the Site directly by visiting our web site, the home page of the Site or through the Web site of one of our partner schools or other third-party partners (collectively, "Partners").  This notice applies to all information you submit or make available to Freiker, through the Site.  Please note that we cannot be responsible for the information you submit directly to third parties, including our Partners, who may have their own posted policies regarding the collection and use of your information.  We urge you to review the policies of our Partners through whom you may access our services.

@h2 The Information We Collect

"Personal Information" is non-public information about you that is personally identifiable to you like your name, address, e-mail address, or phone number, as well as other non-public information that is associated with the foregoing.  "Anonymous Information" means information that is not associated with or linked to your Personal Information; Anonymous Information does not permit the identification of individual persons.  We collect, use, and disclose Personal Information and Anonymous Information as described in this Privacy Policy.

When you register to become a Freiker Participant (as that term is defined in the Terms of Service) or participate in the Program, as such term is defined in the Terms of Service, we will collect your name, an email address and a zip code.  You may also be required to provide us with your address to access certain features of the Site, but it is not required to access the basic features or to participate in the Program.  We use this information to provide the services to you that you request and to facilitate your participation in the Program.

We collect any other information you voluntarily provide us via email or on other forms found on the Site, whether Personal Information or Anonymous Information.  We will use information for the purpose for which you provided the information to us.

Cookies are tiny data files that Web sites commonly write to your hard drive when you visit them so that they can remember you when you visit.  A cookie file contains information that can identify you anonymously and maintain your account's privacy.  Our site uses cookies to maintain a user’s identity between sessions so that the site can be personalized based on user preferences or a user’s history.  You can set your Web browser to prompt you before you accept a cookie, accept cookies automatically or reject all cookies.  However, if you choose not to accept cookies from this Web site, then you may not be able to access and use all or part of this Web site or benefit from the information and services which it offers.

Additionally, we collect some Anonymous Information from the RFID chip worn by Freiker Participants, including the date and time that a Freiker Participant scans the chip at the Freikometer at the Freiker Participant’s school.

@h2 How We Use Information

We use the Personal Information we collect about you to provide you services requested by you, including allowing you participation in the Program, to facilitate the registration process, to provide information to you about Freiker and related topics, to respond to requests that you make, to improve the Service (as defined in the Terms of Service), and to better tailor the features, performance, and support of the Service. We use return email addresses to answer the email we receive.  

We also reserve the right to use your Personal Information to send you e-mails regarding changes to the Service, system downtime and/or changes to this Privacy Policy or the Terms of Service, and you are not permitted to opt out of receiving these e-mail messages.

Otherwise we use your Personal Information for sending out newsletters and other Freiker outbound communications, such as information on product enhancements, fundraising campaigns, tool upgrades, or participant news.  We may also use your Personal Information to calculate mileage traveled and emissions saved based on that user’s participation in the Program.  The use of your Personal Information may be both on an individual basis and in an aggregated format. 

We may create Anonymous Information records from Personal Information.  We reserve the right to use and disclose Anonymous Information at our discretion.  

@h2 Children’s Privacy

We welcome visitors of all ages, including children under the age of thirteen.  Due to our status as a non-profit organization, we are not required to comply with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA).  However, we strongly encourage those users and visitors aged eighteen and under to use our services only with parental consent and supervision. Pursuant to our Terms of Use, you must be at least 18 years of age to register as a Freiker Participant.

@h2 Third-party Access and Use

Except as expressly stated to the contrary in this Privacy Policy, we do not sell, disclose, rent or trade Personal Information to outside parties. 

Occasionally, we or our Partners hire third-party service providers to help provide or improve the services we offer you.  Sometimes it is necessary for these providers to have access to the Personal Information we collect about you.  In those cases, we take reasonable steps to ensure that these providers do not use or otherwise disclose any Personal Information we collect about you except for the purpose of fulfilling their service obligations to us and our Partners.  We may share your Personal Information with third-party service providers to help coordinate certain publicity or other events. We may share information with these third-party service providers in order to facilitate coordination of these events.

We share aggregate information about our users and our Service with certain third parties.  This information shows user and Service activity as a whole rather than on an individual basis; such aggregate information cannot be used to individually identify you.  We use aggregated information we collect about users to continue to improve our service for you. 

In the unlikely event that Freiker undergoes a sale or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets, the acquiring entity will be subject to this Privacy Policy in its use of your Personal Information.  In addition, in the further unlikely event that Freiker is adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent (a) there will be no further use or disclosure of your Personal Information by Freiker and (b) your Personal Information will be destroyed.  In addition, there will be no use or disclosure of your Personal Information by any entity that acquires assets of Freiker pursuant to such bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. 

Due to factors beyond our control, however, we cannot fully ensure that your Personal Information will not be disclosed to third parties.  We may be required by law, or by law enforcement officers acting under the color of law, to record some or all of your communications on or through the Service.  We may, and you hereby authorize us to, disclose your Personal Information and your communications through the Service, if required by law or by law enforcement officers acting under the color of law, or if we believe in good faith that such disclosure is necessary to: (a) comply with relevant laws or to respond to subpoenas or warrants served on us; or (b) to protect or defend the rights, property, or safety of Freiker, you, other users, or third parties (especially in emergency situations).

@h2 Links
This site contains links to other sites. Freiker is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such Web sites. 

@h2 Opting-out of  Communications

Please be aware that subscribing to our email newsletters is optional, and subject to this Privacy Policy, we allow recipients to unsubscribe from newsletters at any time.  In each email newsletter we provide instructions regarding how to opt-out from receiving future newsletter emails. You can also email us by using our contact form located at 
^http://www.freiker.org/bp/Contact_Us
to remove your name from any database for newsletters or other communications and ensure that you will cease receiving future newsletters from us.
We may also use our email lists for sending out other Freiker outbound communications such as product enhancements, tool upgrades, or participant news.  Registered participants and users of the Service are required to receive these communications.  

@h2 Our Commitment To Data Security

To prevent unauthorized access, maintain data accuracy, and ensure the correct use of Personal Information, we have put in place reasonable physical, electornic, and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the Personal Information we collect online.  However, as you probably know, third parties may unlawfully intercept or access transmissions or private communications, and other users may abuse or misuse your Personal Information that they collect from the Services. Therefore, although we work very hard to protect your privacy, we do not promise, and you should not expect, that your Personal Information or private communications will always remain private. 

@h2 Changes to Policy

As part of the Terms of Service, this Privacy Policy is subject to occasional amendment, in accordance with the terms of the Terms of Service. 

@h2 How To Contact Us

We appreciate your questions or comments about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or your dealings with Freiker. Please contact us by using our contact form located at 
^http://www.freiker.org/bp/Contact_Us
or you can send snail mail to 
@strong 2701 Iris Avenue, Suite S, Boulder, Colorado 80304.

This policy was last updated: November 23, 2008
